---
x-trestle-comp-def-rules:
  software-ism_o:
    - name: rule-ism_o_0418
      description: Rule for ism_o_0418
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: rhel10-ism_o-base
    href: trestle://profiles/rhel10-ism_o-base/profile.json
  sort-id: ism_o_0418
---

# ism_o_0418 - \[REPLACE_ME\] Credentials Are Kept Separate From Systems They Are Used To Authenticate To, Except For When Performing Authentication Activities.

## Control Statement

Physical credentials are kept separate from systems they are used to authenticate to, except for when performing authentication activities.
“Physical credentials” includes things like written-down passwords, smart cards, security tokens, and one-time password devices. 
These credentials should not be stored on or directly with the system they grant access to.
The only time the credential may be connected to the system is during actual authentication activity. 
Applies across classifications (Non-Classified up to Top Secret) as per the ISM applicability markings.

______________________________________________________________________

## What is the solution and how is it implemented?

Physical credentials (e.g., smart cards, tokens, written passwords) must be stored separately from the systems they grant access to, and only connected or used during authentication.

Solution & Implementation:

Keep all physical authentication devices in secure storage when not in use (e.g., locked cabinet).
Configure systems to lock automatically when a smart card/token is removed.
Prohibit storing passwords or keys on or near the system they protect.
Train users and periodically verify compliance through inspections or audits.

Outcome:
Prevents unauthorized access by ensuring credentials are not co-located with the systems they secure.

### Rules:

  - rule-ism_o_0418
  - https://github.com/ComplianceAsCode/content/blob/13d291ba874c5d1ecd3d77b6f280271ffa89772f/controls/ism_o.yml
  - chrome-extension://efaidnbmnnnibpcajpcglclefindmkaj/https://www.cyber.gov.au/sites/default/files/2025-09/Information%20security%20manual%20%28September%202025%29.pdf 

### Implementation Status: planned

______________________________________________________________________
